---
layout: image-post
title:  "Persona"
date:   2019-12-14 20:32:00 -0300
description: "It is impossible to hide flaws in a facade when it is the only interesting thing about the house."
categories: "image"
author: Paipa Psyche
image: "/assets/img/gallery/persona.jpg"
link: "/index.html"
icon: ""
tags: ""
---

## Discussion
Today, most of the world's social interactions occur thanks to **massive information networks** that allow users to capture their identity on their virtual profile and expose themselves to the eyes of the world. While this often helps the masses **keep up** with a world that is advancing by leaps and bounds, this lends itself to many unwanted scenarios of deception and false self-esteem.

> Sometimes we forget about how important is to be more interesting in real life than whoever you are on the internet.

When creating a **persona** in social networks, we rarely stop to think how much we want this new social network to infiltrate our lives. We do not know how much we are willing to **share authentically** and when we least think about it we are showing our Sunday breakfast to 600 strangers.




## Technique
Collage in 32 Layers exposed to Style Transfer, color-filtered and re-processed with CNN to increase resolution.

## From the artist
With this work I wanted to reflect our **innocence and ingenuity** when facing a tool as powerful on so many levels of our society as the internet is. We are barely intelligent apes that managed to create a **network of shared knowledge**, and now that we have managed to expand it to all the recesses of our daily life, we tenderly have the **illusion** of knowing what we are doing and where we are going.

As a sentient human being and observer of my environment, it is easy for me to notice that, as humankind, we are atrophying. When watching a sunset we prefer to take out the phone and see it through the screen, instead of simply marveling at the sublime vision that is presented to us. Sometimes we make a bigger effort to make a good post on social media than to support a loved one through a crisis. We create fake news to manipulate the masses, when the only effect they have is to confuse and illiterate.

> **We choose to ignore how ignorant they have made us.**

The image shows the explorer crossing the threshold of the unknown that, ironically, is also full of gazes. A swirling and diffuse vision of a **multicolored cosmos of possibilities** that can amaze anyone with a pair of eyes. The innocence of Ikaro flying closer and closer to the sun, not knowing that his ignorance of the situation would cost him everything.

## Models and references

#### Models
* Aldo G. Dorantes (Ph.)
